---
layout: post
title: Equity Part 1 - Introduction to Equity
date: 2021-07-23 16:44:00 +0530
description: I would like to write a small blog on my current understanding on equity market. So here I'm trying to put my understanding into words. # Add post description (optional)
img: equity.png # Add image post (optional)
tags: [equity, mutual fund, index fund] # add tag
---

# Stocks/Equity:

A Stock market is a place where we can buy and sell holdings/share (or ownership) in one or more companies. When a company has good growth, we expect that to be reflected in the price of a share. So if I buy a share at a low price and after sometime, if I can sell the share at a higher price, then the difference is my profit. The place where the companies are listed (where we can buy/sell) is the stock exchange. There are two exchanges in India, namely, NSE (National Stock Exchange) and BSE (Bombay Stock Exchange).

It is not possible for us to <u>always</u> invest in the stocks that will give good returns, we have to agree we will make mistakes and loose money. Also the most important lesson is, we can never predict how a company will do in the short term. But with the right education and right experience we will be able to predict a companies' behavior in the long term. Hence the famous statement, **Investment is always a long term game**. Anything below 5-10 years is not an Investment.

Investing in stocks give higher returns when compared to investing money in gold, PF, FD, RD, PPF. But as always, **higher returns means higher risk**. To become a good investor in the stock market, we need the following things:
1. To learn about the workings of the stock market. Understanding it as a system.
2. Before investing in each company we have to spend a lot of time to understand their financial standings.

Becoming good at something will take time, and I certainly won't start at a point where the stakes are high, and there is high chance of making mistakes. In these situations, I generally would like to see the professionals at work, so that I can start emulating them and later tweak things as I would like, to get better returns.
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
# Mutual Funds:

A mutual fund house (the company which provides the below service) will have experts (also called as fund managers) in the stock market, so we will pay them for helping us get better returns. So we hire an expert to do our work (efficiently manage to invest our money in the market), in return we pay a charge (also called as 'Expense ratio') for their service.

So in this case we don't play with high stakes without enough education/expertise. So we are playing a much safer bet now. Thus we buy ourselves some time to learn about equity while our money is earning in the meanwhile.

Now we have traded our time for the fund manager charges (Expense ratio). So we don't have to monitor the market constantly and buy/sell the shares as if we are managing the stocks. We can just check how the fund is doing once in every 3/6 months time. We have saved a lot of time.

Now how funds work, The word "Fund" means collecting amount from multiple people and buying one/more shares and the share/money being managed by an expert. There are funds for equity, gold, bonds, etc. There are two types of funds,
1. Actively managed fund
2. Passively managed fund.

An actively managed fund is a fund which is constantly monitored by the fund manager. So the expense ratio is this case will be higher when compared to a passively managed fund. Also the return/risk is also higher for actively managed funds. These funds a largely classified into 3 types as follows, however, there are many more types which I have avoided for simplicity!
1. Large Cap - Here the fund manager is expected to invest 90% of the amount into very solid performing companies (The ones which are in the top of NSE/BSE listing). So here the returns/risk will be minimum.

2. Mid Cap - Here the fund manager is largely expected to invest in the middle level companies, these might contain emerging companies. So the return/risk is higher than what we saw in Large Cap.

3. Small Cap - Here the fund manager is largely expected to invest in the small level companies, for example these might have startups. So the return/risk is very high in these funds.

A passively managed fund is something which is not constantly monitored by the fund manager. Here the fund manager invests in much safer stocks so that the returns/risk is not as high as a actively managed fund. Hence the expense ratio is much less.

Since in actively managed funds experts are constantly fighting with the market to beat it. They will eventually lose. Since this is a zero-sum game. So we must monitor an actively managed fund once every 3/6 months to make sure it gives better returns than index.

The index is the benchmark against which each fund will be measured. If an actively managed fund gives a return percentage that is less than the index (<u>after reducing the expense ratio</u>) then that fund is not good enough.
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
# Index Fund:

An index fund is a type of passively managed fund. SEBI has made sure every fund will be targeted against an index fund. So that we the investors can have a measure on how well the fund is performing.

A few examples of index funds are listed below
* Nifty 50 - A fund containing top 50 companies in NSE.
* Nifty Next 50 - A fund containing companies from 51 to 100 in NSE
* Nifty 100 - A fund containing top 100 companies in NSE
* BSE 500 - A fund containing top 500 companies in BSE

**The point in index fund is, we will always have holdings in the top performing companies**. I will explain this statement with an example, say if we are speaking about Nifty 50, that means we are having holdings in top-50 companies of NSE. Tomorrow say a company called X who is currently in 50th place moves to 51st position in NSE listing and a company called Y moves from 51st place to 50th place, then automatically our holdings from X is sold and we will buy holdings in Y. So it is like having holdings in the top-50 companies anytime, it doesn't matter who it is! Since this is driven by machines/code, without any manual intervention, the expense ratio is much less when compared to our normal mutual funds.